OK, let's try a volume check.
Hey, before you turn this off. OK, this is Ron
Shorn, and I'm interviewing Jack Brandt. And for
the record, give your full name. My entire full
name? John Conrad Brandt, Jr. OK, and when were you
born? I was born on, well, that's actually a tricky
question. but it will give you insight into how my
life has gone. I was actually born on August 7th,
1934. Both my mother and father agreed that I was
born on August 7th, 1934. However, the city of St.
Louis says I was born on August 8th, 1934. So it
turns out I ran afoul of bureaucracy essentially
on square one and have been running afoul of
bureaucracies ever since. How did you get
interested in astronomy?
You know, that is really hard to say, but I can, it's
the kind of thing that I think is very natural to
people. But the specific thing that I can remember
is writing a paper very early in my college career
on the determination of the speed of light by Ole
Romer and whoever worked with him from the
satellites at Jupiter. And I was impressed that
such a basically simple approach to a fairly
fundamental observation could yield, ballpark,
the correct results. And this idea of being able to
use your wits to determine what's going on in a
cosmic sense appealed to me, and I guess it was
downhill from there on. Where'd you get your
undergraduate degree and when? Undergraduate
degree at Washington University in St. Louis in
1956. And what was your major? Mathematics. Okay,
and then where'd you go to grad school? I went to
grad school twice. The first time was at the
University of Chicago. 56 to 60 when I got a degree,
PhD in astronomy. And then due to various
malfeasances of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration from 1981 to 1983, I went to
graduate school at Loyola College in Baltimore
and obtained a Master of Business
Administration. Who was your thesis advisor?
What was your thesis? My thesis was on different
ways of producing Lyman-alpha radiation in the
solar system. This included some planets and
what was then called the interplanetary medium.
The solar wind hadn't actually been fully
invented yet. It was around but not used. And my
thesis advisor was Joseph Chamberlain. How did
you get interested in that field? Did they pick
you, or did you go around and pick something else?
It was sort of a little bit of both. When I first went
to Yerkes, I was, of course, taking courses. And I
had a one-year research assistantship on the
astrometry project that was being run by Kai
Strand at the time. And I quickly determined that I
was not all that interested in astrometry. and
this guy named joe chamberlain seemed to be doing
interesting physics in the atmospheres of
planets and he was also working on solar wind
theory at the time so the uh the juncture was
natural and i think he's been very productive um
where did you go after you got your phd okay first
year after the phd i spent i was a something called
an nsf cooperative Cooperative, oh boy, it's been
a long time. But some kind of postdoctoral
fellowship that involved the postdoctoral
institution contributing resources and NSF paid
the salary. And that was essentially late 60 to
late 61 at Mount Wilson and Palomar, literally on
813 Santa Barbara Street. And where'd you go from
there? And I came to Berkeley. and I stayed here a
year and a half and then I went to Kitt Peak in early
63 and stayed there for three years and then in 66 I
went to the Goddard Institute for Space Studies
and stayed there about a year and they were then
trying to get people to go to Goddard and run things
so I started out in the solar physics branch in 1967
as Ed was the technical title, and then I was made
chief of the Laboratory for Solar Physics, and
that evolved and amalgamated, and for about the
last 10 years at Goddard, which ended in 87, so from
77 to 87, I was chief of the Laboratory for
Astronomy and Solar Physics. And then you wrote,
and then you went? And then I went to the University
of Colorado, where I am senior research associate
and Professor Perrin Attendant Rank, close
Perrin. I'm just, I'm not making this up. I'll give
you my card if you don't believe it, of
astrophysical, planetary, and atmospheric
sciences. We require documentation for that, so
if you want to save some tape.
Okay, do you consider yourself an astronomer?
Yeah. Do you consider yourself a solar system
astronomer? A what? A solar system or planetary
astronomer or just a plain astronomer? I consider
both. Usually the world, for reasons which are not
sound, describes all astronomers into solar
system people and the equivalent of
astrophysicists. I am both. Back in the early 60s,
did you feel looked down upon by real
quote-unquote astronomers? Well, I'm
absolutely sure that real astronomers tried to
look down on me, but I didn't let them. And I'm being
slightly serious. I, for quite some time, have
chosen the things to work on that I was interested
in for what I perceive to be their intrinsic
purpose. merit and interest to me, and if somebody
else doesn't think that's important, that's, in
my personal opinion, their problem. Do you think
that real astronomers look down on planetary
anything, you know, closer in the light year, back
in the 60s, and do they do it now? Well, they
certainly did in the 60s,
but, you know, this is simply a mental aberration
that should not be unduly dignified. There is a
huge tendency in astronomy for anybody working in
any field to regard anything that that person is
not personally working on as unimportant. And I
think it far transcends the astrophysicist
looking down on the solar system people, and you
can even take it farther, and then you get into the
astrophysicist, the people that work on
cosmology and quasars look down on the stellar
people. And it's sort of another form of prejudice
in our society that shouldn't be unduly
dignified. What was astronomy and planetary
astronomy like when you got started as opposed to
today? I don't know about as opposed to today. We
were just starting to get into missions to
planets, which of course were very exciting. And a
lot of the work that I did first with Joe
Chamberlain with myself was some of the first work
done on For example, Lyman-Alpha from the
planets, and half of my astronomer friends didn't
know what Lyman-Alpha was, which I found somewhat
amusing, but I'm sorry, I tilted it back at the
wrong time. What's the best piece of work that you
think you've done? It had to be carved on a
tombstone.
That would be awfully hard to pin down. As you know,
Ron, my approach to astronomy has been somewhat
eclectic. I've done archaeoastronomy. I've done
rotation curves of galaxies, fiddled with the GUM
nebula. I was the principal investigator for the
GHRS, which has contributed to lots of
disciplines. I have helped found the
International Halley Watch. I helped start the
Solar Maximum Mission. Anything that I have done,
the more recent stuff that I'm doing right now, I'm
as proud of as anything. That is, I think we have
pinned down to within all a reasonable doubt what
the source of disconnection events in comets
might be. And the answer is magnetic reconnection
of sector boundaries. which is what we proposed 15
years ago, but we didn't have, that was a good
speculation, we didn't have the evidence to back
it up. I think we have the evidence now, but it's
sort of like asking somebody what their favorite
child is. I view whatever my contribution is to
astronomy to be in multiple areas, including
trying to run a NASA laboratory intelligently,
helping sell missions. I think 50 years from now,
The stuff I did on the International Halley Watch
may be what I'm remembered by. I really don't know.
What was the most fun with the thing you did?
Well, you know, that is very hard to say. I think
selling the GHRS because everybody told us as
Goddard High Resolution Spectrograph on the
Hubble Space Telescope, everybody told us in 1976
and 1977 that a proposal from a NASA lab didn't have
a chance of a snowball and you know where. And, of
course, we were category one and selected and it's
up and working. So, again, when you want singles,
you know, I'll tell you stuff that I consider to be
exciting and productive, but it's hard to pin
down. Did you ever have any dead ends, misfires,
things like that? Sure. Dead ends and misfires. I
had a most wonderful theory of the blue clearing on
Mars. That would be totally wrong. But it was a
great theory. What was it? Well, at that time,
there was evidence, which we now know to be false,
that the solar wind might stop around 2 AU. And so we
postulated that it stopped, obviously, around
the orbit of Mars and that the eccentricity would
carry it in and out of this boundary. Absolutely
wonderful theory that had nothing to do with
reality. When did you first cross swords with an
ASA? First official contact. Yeah, I wouldn't say
that I had crossed swords with NASA, although...
When did you first cross paths? Although NASA
might have an order to do.
Well, I was, whilst at Kitt Peak, involved with, I
think it was Mariner 4, with an experiment that
Charlie Barth was doing when he was still at JPL.
Now, I may have this a little garbled, because as
you know, that was 30 years ago. And
something happened, and we were all summarily
tossed off the mission. And it apparently
bothered Charlie so much that he moved to the
University of Colorado, where he was my director
for five years. That was probably it, my first one.
But clearly, when I became a NASA employee and a
NASA
branch head and then a lab chief, it was a long
interaction for about 20 years. And I will say, it
was only towards the end that the cost-benefit
ratio went strongly unfavorable. In the 60s, if
you were in NASA and had good ideas and were willing
to work hard, you could get really neat things
done. Like we sold the SMM mission. Solar maximum
mission. Yeah, sorry. So we sold that, and I think
it's been one of the most productive solar
missions around. And then we, done with that, we
sold the Goddard high resolution spectrograph.
And we helped start the Halley watch. And you can go
down the list. But now, generally speaking, even
if you have a good idea and you're willing to work
hard, it doesn't matter. It's not going to happen
anyway. In general, do you think NASA's handled
planetary science good or bad?
Or average? Let's start with the pluses, and then
we'll try to draw a conclusion. It's done a lot. I
mean, we've had missions to Mercury and Venus and
Mars and Jupiter and Uranus, Saturn, Neptune. So,
you know, it's hard to fault the accomplishments,
in my opinion, of the NASA planetary missions. You
know, missions to the moon, we've got rocks, you
know, a whole bit. And Mars observers on its way. It
doesn't have any significant problems that I know
of, and Galileo's one as well. It does have a
significant problem, but you can probably recoup
a fair amount of that. I've heard a number of people
say that NASA gets the pretty pictures and then
cuts off the money before the data is really
properly examined and published. Is that true? I
think you can take two views of that, and then let's
try to decide which is correct.
Certainly that tendency, and especially under
the new administrator, Daniel Golden, I think
there is even more than normal an inclination to
launch something and skim the cream and then
declare victory and go home. The old NASA motto
among the troops was build it, launch it, and
forget it, and I'm afraid we're going back to that.
under the management that's been around for the
last 10 years or so, largely involving people like
Len Fisk, I think there was a tendency to
understand that when you built something like
this, that the risk part was in the building,
testing, and launching, and that the mission
part, so-called M-O-N-D-A in NASA parlance,
mission operations and data analysis, is the good
part, the cream-skimming, the gravy, But
regrettably, I think we're going back to that. So I
think it is a real problem. The thought of turning
off things like Magellan I think sets a precedent
which I really don't even want to think about. But
it is almost surely going to happen. So I would say
that NASA, up until semi-recently, has improved
in that area over the early days. But now they seem
to be regressing backward into the old build,
launch, and forget syndrome. Or do you think
planetary astronomy would be today without the
money that NASA's put into it? We wouldn't even
recognize it. We've gone places and seen things
that we just absolutely could not do from Earth. We
do a lot from Earth. Having a mix of ground-based
and space and in situ and theory and all of the above
is the way you make progress. Do you feel that
people at headquarters in the past and in the
present really understand what the troops in the
field are doing? Do they keep up with the science? I
really don't know how to answer that. I deal mostly
now in my astrophysical hat with Ed Weiler, who is
very knowledgeable about what's going on, and
with, in my planetary hat, with Jurgen Rahi, who I
would say the same thing, but they are in an
environment which is, I think, charitably fire
drill oriented, and whether they can spend enough
time to keep fully up to date, I don't know, but I
think they make a very good effort. Whether the
top, remember this is the discipline chief level,
And these people invariably are or were active
scientists. And I think their ability to keep up
with what's going on is relatively good. As you
then go higher in the NASA hierarchy, where,
frankly, most of the decisions are made, I think
the organization tends to be out of touch with
anything outside the Beltway. 30 years ago, there
was just an American Astronomical Society. Now
there are all these sub-societies. And the first
one, I guess, was the Division of Planetary
Sciences. Has that been a good thing or a bad thing
for A, planetary astronomy, and B, astronomy in
general? I am one of the last holdouts against the
Division of Planetary Sciences. I only joined
last year. I believe that the... The vision does
serve a useful purpose in bringing everybody
together, and I now religiously go to the
meetings, but I think it has also further helped to
drive the wedge between the planetary community
and the other community. They never did talk very
much to each other. No, but this sort of makes it
official.
Thirty years ago, Icarus was an obscure journal
publishing obscure papers by Bulgarians,
Austrian mechanics, and you've got to give Carl
Sagan credit. He really changed that around. Do
you happen to know who wrote the first paper in
Icarus? Well, you did. Yes, thank you. I'm talking
about the majority of papers, all right? It turns
out that paper was wrong, incidentally, but...
Which came to a shock to Joe Burns. I did what I told
him. Do you think the rise of Icarus has been a good
thing? I mean, we don't see planetary papers in the
APJ anymore, not that we saw a whole lot of them.
Well, I still publish some of my planetary papers
in APJ, and I publish some in Icarus, and I publish
some in AJ, and I plan to publish some in ANA. As I
described earlier, a lot of this work I've been
doing with DEs and the Halley data has all come to
fruition, so there's a flock of papers coming out.
Astronomy and Astrophysics, the so-called
European Journal, which is about international
or anything. I think Icarus has been turned into a
first-rate journal. Whether or not those papers
would have been published anywhere somewhere
else, I couldn't possibly tell you. You think,
take this meeting now, do you think the
astronomers... Here, this is your personal
opinion again, that they look down on planetary
astronomy now. Is there a grudging acceptance? Is
there a wholehearted acceptance? I honestly
don't know. And that stems from not caring. Some
may. I'm sure there's some that do. But, you know,
so what? Here's a particular and a general
question. The particular one is, what's the
reaction you get from people you meet on the
airplane when you tell them you're an astronomer?
Oh, that's easy. When I tell an astronomer it's
wonderful, when I tell them I work on Hubble, it's
not so wonderful. And for the first year or so after
the spherical aberration was discovered, I did
not volunteer that information. Things have, the
general public perception has improved to the
point where I can now volunteer it without
risking, you know, three hours with the person
next to you beating you over the head verbally.
What do you think the public's general attitude
towards planetary astronomy and astronomy in
general? I think the public has fantastic support
for the general mission of astronomy in general
and of NASA in terms of exploration of space and
orbiting observatories in particular. I find
that it's the political process where the support
tends to weaken. But I give lots of public talks. I
personally figure I'm supported by public monies
and giving talks on my work on Hubble and whatever
else is part of the territory, and I find
tremendous reception. Do you think planetary
astronomers in particular and astronomers in
general have done as good a job as they could in
selling themselves to the public in Congress?
Undoubtedly not. No question. On the other hand,
Would you agree that there's probably more
realization now that, you know, getting paid by
the public, you've got to tell them. Is that true?
Would you go on with that?
I doubt that, actually. I think in some levels that
is well perceived, but I continue to meet people
who regard their intellectual inquiry almost as a
divine right. Just give me the money and don't ask
questions. Exactly. I'm smart. I'm uncovering
the secrets of the universe. Send the check. uh how
good a job have we done with the congress we've
probably done even worse with the congress we tend
like almost all segments of u.s society to respond
only to at 11 59
on a scale of 12 o'clock to impending disasters
when something that's near and dear to our heart is
about to be canceled we spring into action but we
don't do the homework that would have prevented us
from getting in that situation in the first place?
Well, we haven't found life anywhere, any trace of
evidence of life anywhere in the solar system
except where we know it is on Earth. Do we? Well, we
haven't found it yet. What's the evidence part?
Make good beer. All right. Has that had any effect
on funding and public interest, the fact that
there's epidural martians?
I doubt it. You know, these are, quote, finding of
life, unquote, is such a long shot. I think most
people understand what the odds are. A lot of
people have gotten a lot of publicity and money, I
guess, lately, pushing topics like killer
asteroids, ozone holes, search for
extraterrestrial intelligence, other solar
systems. You think they're overdoing it?
Let me just comment on the killer asteroid
syndrome. Nothing that I personally know of
that's being done there is bad science. In fact,
there's a lot of good science there. And it's an
area that I have some interest. I am trying to get
modest funding to do searches for small comets. It
turns out that really is a different problem if you
read the space watch survey carefully. I believe,
however, that Congress is funding it for what they
believe to be the danger to Earth. And although
there clearly is a danger to Earth, I think that is
probably overblown. It probably won't do any harm
either.
What killed planetary, essentially killed
planetary astronomy early in the century? Is it
just Percival Hall that we run out of? I really
don't know the answer to that question. Partly the
reason I don't like to put, first of all, don't
know, but even if I thought I did, a lot of these
things tend to go in cycles. And it's sort of like
education, you know, we use phonics and then it's
whatever, whatever, whatever. So I don't take
short-term fluctuations too seriously, and I
think under the last 20, 25 years with NASA and all
the way... direct missions that the planetary
astronomy may have gotten the lion's share of
something, and if it goes back the other way, so
what? What's the state of planetary astronomy
today? Plus, minus, zero? I still think it's a
plus.
And keeping it a plus, in my view, depends on...
Three things. Continued vitality at the young
investigator level. In other words, enough funds
to keep a crop
of fresh blood, fresh ideas coming into the field.
The development, that's one. Two is the
development of good ground-based capabilities
for observations of planets. And the third is
keeping a reasonable semblance of the space
program going. Of the three, I worry most about the
last one, number three. But they're all
intertwined at a rather good level. And so even as
we speak, again, we have Galileo and Mars
Observer. And so my big question is, where is the
next planetary mission coming from? Will it be the
Discovery series? Will it be a larger mission,
whatever?
In the last 30 years since NASI got into business,
the taxpayers have spent a lot of money on
planetary astronomy. What do you think they've
gotten back from it? I think they got a lot of
excitement. I frankly think that that money,
generally speaking, has been well spent and that
enough has come of it that is straightforward and
reasonably simple to understand. You don't need
to be... and a professional astronomer to look at
an image of a planet at a new resolution or a new
wavelength and see there's brand new stuff going
on there. I find that, again, when I talk to people
in a public type, you know, the Kiwanis Club, ARP is
one of my, they're desperate always for programs
where I live, so they keep calling me up, that the
people appreciate what is being done. I don't
think that when people hear that the NASA budget is
1% of the federal budget, that they consider that
ill-spent at all? Most people think it's 10% or
15%, incidentally, which is not true. But again,
perception is the problem here. Let's get a
particular case now. The University of Colorado
doesn't have any conservatory or anything.
Again, I'm asking questions, and you know I know
some of the answers to them. But how did space
science and planetary astronomy get going at
Colorado? Space science had a really long
tradition, starting right after World War II with
what was then the physics department. I mean,
people like Bill Rentsch, doing
spectroscopy of first the sun and other solar
system objects from rockets. And this has gone on
through the years, and I think one of the other
important things was Charlie Barth coming to the
University of Colorado. It has then been
formulated as a goal of the university to be one of
the preeminent centers of space research in the
country. So I think it started right after World
War II with rockets, mostly launched from White
Sands. And then it has developed into the more
ambitious programs, the missions to planets. And
one of the major OSO 8 experiments was at the
University of Colorado.
So I think that pretty much does it. Now, of course,
we're a major force in the industry. We have a major
new building where we build the instruments. And
one of our new instruments is one Larry Esposito is
building for Cassini. Mission to Saturn,
studying rings and everything else. So he's
standing pretty good with the administration.
Not sure what that means. We win our share of the
competitions, which is the way all these things
are selected, and we have areas of
world-recognized expertise, detectors,
systems, et cetera. Just out of curiosity, what
percentage of undergrad students actually get
any exposure to astronomy? I can't, well, first
you have to define that. There is an
undergraduate, you know, astronomy one type
course, and that has hundreds of people. So
there's some fraction that way. For a long time,
there was a satellite called SME, the Solar
Mesospheric Explorer, where undergraduates
could actually go in and learn how to operate a
spacecraft. And for a long time, we were the only
university that was operating their own
spacecraft, and we did it. with the proper
supervision, but literally with undergraduate
students. And the University of Colorado has also
had a fair number of people go on into the astronaut
corps. Alan Shepard and there are others. I don't
want to start down the list because I'll surely
forget one, but there's a bunch. um people are
still churning out grad students in space science
and planetary astronomy and regular astronomy
when is that going to stop or is it well all economic
systems are self-correcting i try to be fairly
candid with my students about what their job
chances are and they're not i tell them they're not
what they used to be some of these people have
almost built in things like one of my very best
graduate students is from Korea. He wants to go
back to Korea. He'll get a job in Korea because he
has a prestigious education and all that kind of
thing. But that's long ago. This was probably 20
years ago when I was doing some teaching at the
University of Maryland. While I was at Goddard, I
had an adjoint professorship at Maryland. And
Gart Westerhout used to give him the incoming
students a little sheet of paper that said, okay,
here you are. We'll be happy to educate you, but you
really ought to know that you might not get a job
studying cosmology at Mount Wilson and Palomar
Observatories. You might wind up teaching in a
small college or working for IBM or CSC or
something like that. I think a lot of people are
being honest about it. A lot of students, students
that are... come into graduate school or at an age
they're not always amenable to that kind of
advice, to put it mildly, and you can't do anything
about that. But I believe if you're honest up
front, you're okay. Do you think planetary
astronomy is kind of mined out as regards big
discoveries? Nonsense. Professor Ari was not
correct 100 years ago. No, he was not. Because
that's something that several people have
mentioned. They say, well, you know, we now know
what the backside of the moon looks like.
But there's no evidence of it. I think that's a very
basic lack of understanding of what intellectual
inquiry and knowledge are all about. The day we
quote, know everything.
Between the super colliding superconductor and
the space station, it's easy. Which one do you
want? Pick the super colliding superconductor.
That's going to tell us something that we would
actually like to know rather than have WPA for the
command program. or the people's program.
What happened in planetary astronomy? Well,
missions got more and more complex and more and
more expensive, and I guess Viking was the
ultimate one. And then what happened? Did the
money just dry up, or did people say, wait a minute,
the next mission's going to cost the gross
national product, or what actually happened?
Hard to say in detail, but To the human nature,
everything tends to escalate in expense and
complexity. You know, Toyotas and Nissans or
Datsuns, as they were then called 10 years ago,
were at the low end of the curve, and they kept
creeping up and creeping up. And the same human
tendency works in missions. And if a $300 or $400
million mission was great, well, how about a $2
billion, that one ought to be really fantastic.
And of course, you reach some kind of law of
diminishing returns where the increment in
knowledge is not necessarily proportional to the
increment in cost, to put it as delicately as
possible. So that, coupled with the fact that I am
virtually sure that people in the NASA hierarchy
are rewarded by the size of their missions or the
amount of the budget that they control. You have a
built-in escalation mechanism. And I think we see
that in everything that we do. And partly it's a
technological advance. We know how to do things
better. We don't want to do it the same way we did it
15 or 20 years ago. And partially it's the tendency
towards complexity and bureaucracy and all the
other little nummies that we have come to love and
know. Now let's go back to the late unpleasantness
at the Yerkes Observatory. You may have been
safely out of there, but I recall I spent a summer up
there, and people like you and Ernie Heiser were
telling people, don't come here to grad school.
We're stuck here. We've got to finish it out. And
that place was, as far as I know, famous for its
infighting and everything. And eventually it got
Quaker canned, is all I understand. Is that true?
It's true to the best of my knowledge that there was
a revolt and a no-confidence vote and all that kind
of thing. As a student there, I don't remember it
quite as bad. I mean, we knew the fighting was going
on, but it didn't actually affect us all that much
in retrospect. And I'm perfectly happy with the
education that I got there. But there's no
question it could get a little hairy. You left
before Kuiper was ousted, right? No, Kuiper left
between my third and fourth years there. Which
would be? 1959.
And that's when LPL was founded in Tucson. But when
I left, Morgan was acting director. which was a fun
thing in and of itself. But Corker had already
gone. Actually, only a few people survived that
three- or four-year period in there. Well,
remember that when I first went there, Bengt
Stromgren was director. And I don't know what
happened to him. I don't know whether he was pushed
or shoved. It doesn't matter. He said, fine, I'm
going back to my professorship as Carlsberg
professor at... at the observatory in Denmark,
which I now cannot remember the name of. It's a
famous observatory. Yeah, it's Copenhagen.
Yeah, if any of us says the name, we'll know what it
is. And I was told, don't have actual proof, but
repeatedly told that the Carlsberg Brewery put
major funding into there. Which, hey, we can
handle that. And then Kuiper was director for a
year or two. I don't know whether it was one or two. I
don't know, I don't remember whether Strumden was
one or two years in. Morgan was, I think, acting
director the last year. I've heard from a number of
people that there were a lot of people saying
things like studying the solar system is a waste of
time. We should be doing real astronomy. In
fairness, not only did Joe Chamberlain do solar
system work, but so did Kuiper.
Kuiper was a hell of a smart man. People tend to
forget that because his personality was a little
rough. But he was very innovative. His studies of
what we now call the Kuiper-Duncan belt were 30, 35
years, 40 years ahead of their time, whatever the
number is. And I think it's a tendency to
underestimate his abilities and contributions,
which I think is wrong. When did Aiden, do you
remember when Aiden Minel left? That was, we had
zero overlap at Yerkes, so I don't know when that
was. And Joe Chamberlain? Joe Chamberlain was
still at Yerkes when I left, and two years later,
two and a half years later, he took the job as
director, associate director of the space
division, Kitt Peak, and I joined him at Kitt Peak.
Three years.